# ML-Individual-Project
Introduction: 
Lending Club is a US peer-to-peer lending company, headquartered in San Francisco, California. It was the first peer-to-peer lender to register its offerings as securities with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), and to offer loan trading on a secondary market. Lending Club operates an online lending platform that enables borrowers to obtain a loan, and investors to purchase notes backed by payments made on loans. Lending Club is the world's largest peer-to-peer lending platform.

Each record in the dataset is a distinct loan made on the Lending Club platform. For each loan, over 100 characteristics are recorded in the table. These characteristics can largely be divided into two groups - features of the loan, and features of the borrower. The loan features are the basic stats one might expect, such as the loan amount, the interest rate, the term of the loan etc. The borrower features, which comprise by far the majority of the dataset, are the characteristics of the borrowers that Lending Club has deemed important to collect. Such features include employment length, credit history (fico scores and fico scores history), and public default histories.

Problem Definition:
Lending club has a loan approval process involved. When a borrower applies for a loan on the lending club website, the loan officers review the borrowers’ application to decide whether to reject or approve the loan. So, I wanted to assist Lending Club with better decision making during this process. So, I tried to estimate the probability of default or whether a given borrower will repay the loan or not using the borrower and loan features. So, I am classifying the borrowers into fully paying borrowers and defaulting borrowers (I combined the charged off and defaulted borrowers to default since both are bad for the lending club).
